Farmers protest against govt, demand relief for crop loss  Also in this section Pay 20% more for booze from April 1 Rs 75 lakh seized from vehicle in Lalru ASI shoots self in suicide bid Rs 94L gold seized from passenger at airport Bailable warrants against Lifestyle MD Farmers burn an effigy of the state government at Manav Chowk in Ambala City on Wednesday. Tribune photo Tribune News Service  Ambala, March 20 A group of farmers, who suffered crop losses due to unwanted rainfall and hailstorm in October last year, held a protest and burnt an effigy of the Haryana Government at Manav Chowk in the city. The farmers protested under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) - Charuni today. They have also been on an indefinite dharna outside Deputy Commissioner’s office in Ambala City. “Hundreds of insured and uninsured farmers in Ambala, who suffered crop losses in October, have yet to get compensation. We are being told that the authorities are facing some issues due to incomplete documents of farmers. The government has forced us to observe black Holi this year,” said Gulab Singh, district BKU- Charuni vice president. “Over 1,600 farmers have been declared ineligible for the compensation as they have failed to submit their claims on time. Left out farmers must get relief too,” he added. As per the information, out of the 4,950 insured farmers, who had sought compensation, 3,300 were found eligible and nearly 2,900 were given compensation. On the other hand, the state government sanctioned Rs 14 crore for 17,000 uninsured farmers. However, the BKU claimed that a majority of uninsured farmers did not get compensation. “Officials claim that funds have already been given to banks. But on approaching banks we were told that they have yet to get required documents of farmers,” said Sukhvinder Singh, the BKU- Charuni city block president. “A mahapanchayat is being organised at the City Grain Market on April 2. If the state government fails to give compensation by April 1, then farmers will boycott the BJP in the upcoming elections,” he added.
