Chandigarh Posted at: Feb 26, 2019,  7:58 AM; last updated: Feb 26, 2019, 12:12 PM (IST) Teachers protest transfers, hold DEO hostage Lock school gate, boycott state govt’s ‘Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab’ project  Also in this section Pay 20% more for booze from April 1 Rs 75 lakh seized from vehicle in Lalru ASI shoots self in suicide bid Rs 94L gold seized from passenger at airport Bailable warrants against Lifestyle MD Tribune News Service Patiala, February 25 The ongoing boycott against the Punjab Government’s ‘Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab’ project escalated when hundreds of teachers held the District Education Officer (Primary) and other officials of the Education Department hostage at Government Multipurpose Elementary School here. In the evening, teachers in large numbers gathered at the school and locked the main gate of the school. District Education Officer (Primary) Kanwal Kumari, Block Primary Education Officers (BPEOs) and other officials came to the school to avoid confrontation after the Adhyapak Sangarsh Committee announced to gherao the DEO office near the Head Post Office. Teachers also staged a sit-in at the school after they came to know their (education officials) plan. The flashpoint of confrontation is said to be the transfer of the six union leaders who boycotted the post test under the ‘Parho Punjab, Paraho Punjab’ programme initiated by Education Secretary Krishan Kumar during the last academic session. Following the protest, DSPYogesh Kumar visited the spot. Meanwhile, Kanwal said, “The transfers have been done for stopping the officials from conducting the post test.” The six teachers, who have been transferred, are Jaswinder Singh, Manoj Kumar, Gurpreet Guri, Didar Singh, Jaswinder Singh and Sukhpal Singh. Addressing the teachers during the protest, Hardeep Toderpur, a leader of the Adhyapak Sangarsh Committee, said, “Every time, on the eve of our meeting with Chief Minister, Krishan Kumar transfers leaders to scuttle the dialogue.”  Teacher slapped Gurpreet Guri, a protesting teacher, was reportedly slapped by a cluster master trainer after an argument with him during a visit to Government Elementary School, Lochma village, Ghannaur block of the district. The teacher has already filed a complaint against the cluster master trainer. Meanwhile, Gurpreet Guri said, “Cluster master trainer Raghuveer slapped me at the behest of BPEO Gurdeep Singh.  Demands met, teachers call off stir Late on Monday night, the teachers called off the protest after DEO Kanwal Kumari cancelled the transfers orders. The Education Departmnet has suspended the post test until teachers hold a meeting with Chief Minister Capt  Amarinder Singh on February 28. The department has also decided to take back its decision of no leave for teachers during the post test. 
